Today on day 1 of this project I read and learned more about what docker, images, and containers are. I already had docker installed so I just checked and made sure it was working properly.

Docker came about as a more portable lightweight upgrade to the alternative of using virtual machines or linux containers. Docker allows for the packaging of applications into a standardized unit/units that can be run on a machine regardless of the OS. While not having the same high overhead costs of storage and compute costs that come with virtual machines. An advantage docker has over traditional linux containers is that docker can be made modular. This means that applications can be broken down by process when being built. The breakdown and distribution of this process allows for more efficient troubleshooting. Identifying where an application is having issues and breaking down and isolating that becomes easier. Although, a strength. This can become an issue when then dealing with numerous containers for an app. Properly keeping track of and ensuring things work properly becomes troublesome. Although there are services such as kubernetes that help with this.

A docker image is an executable application that also contains the configuration of the environment and dependencies required to run the application. As an image is made up of different layers, these layers are only changed when the image is changed/updated. As such, these changes in the layers can help serve as indicators of the different changes and updates that were made to an application as the image would have had to be changed/updated. Also, by using these layers to build new containers and only change what's needed the speed in building is increased because everything isn't being built from the ground up all the time. 

A docker container is what hosts and runs a docker image. It is an instance of an image being run and one image can run multiple containers. Similarly to how a class can have many objects. Containers run by interacting with the OS of the machine they are on to run and use the compute abilities of the local machine to help reduce compute costs. 